Hi, it's Ka I here
and it's my pleasure to present our work,
the Odyssey Journey Top Tier Medical
Resource Seeking for Specialized Disorder
in China. Do
you ever find it difficult to question
your health or express your feelings to
doctors as the medical
consultations are dominated by doctors?
This is a phenomenon that easily happened
in developing countries such as China,
and the significant imbalance doctor to
patient ratio intensifies this kind
of information and power symmetries,
including patients hesitate to challenge
the authority of doctors, and doctors
dominate the consultation in terms of
knowledge, skills, time and
resources. Therefore, health
information seeking is crucial as it
helps patients to access information from
sources beyond doctors, which can
potentially mitigate the asymmetries.
In HCI, there are lots of literature has
explored health information work in the
context of common chronic conditions, and
some have studied on rare diseases.
However,there remains a significant gap
in understanding conditions that are
familiar to specialized doctors, but not
to the general public. We define this as
specific disorders, and hemifacial
spasm, HFS, is one of the
example. I believe most of you may not
have heard of it before, as HFS has a
relatively low prevalence rate. So
there is only limited public exposure and
access to relevant health information.
This can make it really tough for
patients to find the accurate diagnosis
and treatment.
Therefore, we propose two research
questions, which are, one, what are the
primary sources from which HFS
patients seek health and healthcare
information?And two, what
strategies do HFS patients adopt to
acquire top-tier medical resources and
services?And how do these strategies
empower them to mitigateto
power and information asymmetries in the
doctor-patient relationships.
We have interviewed neurosurgeons to gain
a professional perspective on patient
situations and also HFS
patients to gain insights into their
journeys of seeking health information
and top-tier medical resources.
Through thematic analysis, we found that
health information seeking for HFS
patients primarily relies on human
connections. with minimal technological
involvement despite its potential
benefits. So we employed the
factor network theory as our second round
of data analysis to identify and
discuss human and technology on an equal
level.
Using A&T, we have categorized the
health information seeking network of HFS
patients into four distinct units. Each
unit comprises various actors who play
specific roles, and they are also the
primary sources of health information for
HFS patients.
Let's start by talking about the first
unit, the familial unit. This
includes two actors, which are the
patients themselves and their family
members. We've identified three roles for
patients and two roles for family
members. First
role is the proactive information seeking
patient. They tend to
actively seek out healthy information on
their own, so they often couple with
family members who as companion provide
support and accompany.
Second role is the low technological
literacy patient. These are often
older adults who aren't really using or
trusting of online information. They
usually depend on their kids who are
playing the role of the right agent.
The third role is the experienced
patient. This patient have dealt with
other chronic conditions before, so
they're pretty tuned into their health.
They often go straight to their familiar
healthcare professionals to talk about
their conditions.
Moving on to the second unit, community
unit. This includes actors such as
patients' relatives, friends, colleagues
we've identified. First
is the first-hand informant. These are
the people who give patients direct and
crucial information about HFS,
helping them gain access to top-tier
medical resources. The second one
is secondary-hand informant, where they
transfer essential messages from others
to HFS patients. So they generally
couple with intermediary who provide
significant information indirectly.
And there's the pass-by. They might
share experiences, but may not offer
particularly useful information, such
as fellow patients met in random places.
The third unit is the medical unit, which
includes various healthcare providers.
We've identified three roles.
First is the accurate information
providers. These are typically
specialists who have a deep understanding
and medical training of the specific
disorder, such as neurosurgeons who can
provide accurate information and
treatment options for HFS.
Second one is the information scan
provider, which might be
general practitioners
and traditional Chinese medicine doctors.
They provide only basic guidance or
limited treatment suggestions after a
general checkup.
Third one is the misleading information
providers. This group includes
unlicensed medical practitioners and
so-called barefoot doctors in China who
lack the necessary training. They
misdiagnose patients and provide
effective treatment options.
The last unit is the technological unit,
which includes actions such as digital
devices and software. We've
identified 0
active information channel. This is where
patients proactively seek out health
information such as search
engines. Patients generally
utilize them together and validate their
health information received elsewhere
and passive information channel. which
users encounter by chance or system
recommendation, such as watching health
program and TV. We
also identified 5 strategies that
facilitate access to top-tier medical
resources. Each of these
involves a unique combination of
units and roles.
Due to the time limit,I'll introduce only
intermediary strategy here, and please
check out our paper if you're interested
in more details. So
Piwam is a proactive
information-second patient. Her close
friends knew her well, and one of them
acting as a secondary-hand informant,
learning of a similar case successfully
treated by a specific neurosurgeon from
her friend's husband.
So she shared this information with
P1, who then received successful
treatment from the same neurosurgeon.
We can see that this strategy relies
heavily on social networks, where
information and resources are passed
through intermediaries and typically
spread by word of mouth.
Intermediaries significantly reduce
information symmetry. Both
humans and technology can act
as intermediaries. However,
we found that human intermediary is
predominant, with connections
frequently facilitated through social
networking and guanxi in the Chinese
context. This might be due to the
uncommonness of specialized disorder,
where technological approaches are less
effective than social networks.
The establishment and maintenance
frequency, typically based on trust and
resource exchanges, are crucial for
accessing scarce and valuable
information. In particular,
strong ties are more beneficial than
weak ties in China, which differs from
Western societies, therefore.
We believe technology has significant
potential to empower patients to mitigate
asymmetries and reduce reliance on human
infrastructuring that has prerequisites.
For example, personalized propagation
and education based on disorder
characteristics, integration
of technology into health care policies
and infrastructures. Also, using
LLM's virtual doctors, providing
patients with access to information
anytime and anywhere. This
is the end of my presentation. Thank you
so much for your attention.